# Admissions
Admissions are determined by a single metric, referred to as the "key average." The key average is calcuated by taking the lesser of the average of your CPSC_V grades (and COSC_O and CPEN_V 221) and your overall GPA (as shown on Workday) plus 5 percent. In other words, `key_avg = min(GPA + 0.05, CPSC_AVG)`. There is no other metric used to determine admissions. Domestic and international students are considered in the same pool. There are no specially dropped grades. Dropped courses, including those resulting in a W on your transcript, do not have any effect. If applying after your first year, your key average includes all courses taken at UBC over the past 2 winter sessions and the 1 summer session in-between. After applications are received, the key averages are calculated for all eligible students and the top 40 students are admitted. In addition to those 40, students may be specially considered if they submit documentation of extenuating circumstances which affected their academic functions, such as medical conditions. The lowest key average of any admitted student in a given year (excluding students admitted due to extenuating circumstances) is unofficially referred to as that year's "cut-off."

The following graph shows the historical cut-off per recent application years:
<iframe src="https://quickchart.io/chart-maker/view/zm-be5e4f54-f70e-41f8-9e38-c5ab7030c699" frameborder="0" width="100%" height="385"></iframe>

> This page does not contain sources because its' content has been personally sourced from the Department of Computer Science, as of January 20 2025
